---
layout: page
title: Course Policies
permalink: /about/
---

## Grading Policies
The final grades for this course will be determined based on the following weights for each item. Students will be given a grade solely based on the stated requirements.

| Type	 | %  |
| -------| -------|
| Exercises |	70% |
| Mid-Term Exam |	10% |
| Final Exam | 20% |
| Total	  | 100% |


Letter grades will be assigned based on the table below. The conversion scale in the table below may be adjusted depending on the overall class performance. The lowest passing grade is C.

| Letter grade | Total percentage  |
|--------------|-------------------|
| A            | 93 – 100 or above |
| A-           | 90 – 92.99        |
| B+           | 87 – 89.99        |
| B            | 83 – 86.99        |
| B-           | 80 – 82.99        |
| C+           | 77 – 79.99        |
| C            | 73 – 76.99        |
| F            | Below 73          |

## Academic Misconduct
All acts of academic dishonesty including cheating and plagiarism will be viewed as violations of appropriate student conduct and they will be dealt with following student due process policies in effect. Disciplinary actions will be taken as warranted. An act of academic dishonesty in this course will automatically result in a grade of F on the test or assignment at issue, and possibly for the course itself. Please, give credit where credit is due, specifically and consistently. The appropriate use of technology is expected. Please refer to the material posted on the WSU website regarding academic integrity and acceptable student conduct and appropriate use of technology resources. The following website provides clarification and examples of the behaviors that are prohibited (https://doso.wayne.edu/conduct/academic-misconduct).

Strict compliance with the Wayne State University Academic Integrity policies and the Student Code of Conduct are required in this course. Any cheating (including collaboration among students on quizzes or exams), fabrication, plagiarism, or other academic dishonesty may result in an automatic failing grade for this entire course, irrespective of the specific context or assessment involved (quiz, research paper, exam, etc.). Also, charges may be filed with the Judicial Officer of the Dean of Students Office. For more information, see the Student Code of Conduct brochure. There is zero tolerance for academic dishonesty in this course.

In this regard, please be advised that written assignments, such as essay exam answers, papers, and other submissions, may be submitted to SafeAssign/Uni-check software (or similar software or services) for an evaluation of the originality of your work, for assurance that these assignments contain no plagiarism, and for proper attribution of published sources, and may be included in the restricted databases of providers such as SafeAssign/Uni-check, solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism. Plagiarism is a form of cheating and, consistent with the University’s Student Code of Conduct and our School’s Code of Ethics evidence of plagiarism in written assignments, or evidence of other violations, are grounds for further disciplinary action.

For more information of academic integrity, see the following book:

Lipson, C. Doing honest work in college: how to prepare citations, avoid plagiarism, and achieve academic success, Chicago, 2004.

## Lockdown Browser
This course requires the use of LockDown Browser for taking online exams (midterm and final exams only). The computer used for taking exams must also have a built-in or external webcam. The LockDown Browser software prevents a user from accessing other applications or going to other websites during an exam. The webcam (Respondus Monitor) records you during the exam to ensure you’re only using resources that are permitted. Together, these tools make it possible for students to take online exams from any location, and at times that are convenient. It also creates a fair testing environment for everyone in the course. You will need to download and install [LockDown Browser](https://download.respondus.com/lockdown/download.php?id=451214388) to your computer and use it to take tests (instead of using your normal browser). Note: Do not download a copy of LockDown Browser from elsewhere on the Internet; those versions won’t work at our institution. Review this list prior to taking your quiz or exam:

 *  Ensure you are in a location where you won’t be interrupted
 *  Turn off all mobile devices, phones, etc.
 *  Clear your desk of all external materials — books, papers, other computers, or devices
 *  No one else should be in the room with you
 *  Remain at your desk or workstation for the duration of the test
 *  Launch the LockDown Browser and choose Canvas from the drop-down menu
 *  Log in using your WSU access ID and password; navigate to your course
 *  Go to your Exam Content area and select the exam
 *  You will then need to review and agree to the Terms of Use for Respondus Monitor
 *  The Webcam Check will confirm that your webcam and microphone are working properly.
 *  The first time the Webcam Check is performed on a computer, Adobe Flash Player will require you to select Allow and Remember.
 *  The remaining steps of the Startup Sequence will depend on settings chosen by your instructor.
 *  Follow the instructions and note your progress along the top of the screen.
 *  If you encounter a problem, select the It’s not working link for troubleshooting tips.
 *  The test will begin after the Startup Sequence is complete.
 *  If an interruption occurs during the exam, briefly explain what happened by speaking directly to your webcam
 *  You cannot exit the exam until all questions are completed and submitted for grading.

Remember that you cannot take the exam using any other Internet browser (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, etc.) besides the LockDown Browser and that you cannot exit the LockDown Browser until the quiz is submitted. Also, remember to save your answers as you go along the quiz. We highly suggest that you use a wired Internet connection as opposed to a wireless one - if your wireless connection drops at all, you will get disconnected from the Canvas server and may have to have it reset by your instructor. Please make sure to do your practice quiz.


## Student Disabilities Services
If you have a documented disability that requires accommodations, you will need to register with Student Disability Services for coordination of your academic accommodations. The Student Disability Services (SDS) office is located at 1600 David Adamany Undergraduate Library in the Student Academic Success Services department. The SDS telephone number is 313-577-1851 or 313-202-4216 for videophone use. Once you have your accommodations in place, I will be glad to meet with you privately during my office hours to discuss your special needs. Student Disability Services’ mission is to assist the university in creating an accessible community where students with disabilities have an equal opportunity to fully participate in their educational experience at Wayne State University. You can learn more about the disability office at www.studentdisability.wayne.edu To register with Student Disability Services, complete the online registration form at: https://wayne-accommodate.symplicity.com/public_accommodation/
