---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
permalink: /syllabus/
---
Database Systems is a hands on course with a focus on acquiring technical skills for working with RDBMS systems. Students will learn how to write structure queries to select, join, filter, sort and report on data sets.
Data in most organizations resides in RDBMSs (Relational Data Base Management Systems) , such as SQL, ORACLE, and, ACCESS. Having the ability to work with them is essential for having access to these data sets. This course is focused on learning skills necessary for retrieving, processing, and reporting data present in RDBMSs (Relational Database Management Systems).
A computer is required for this course. No prior programming experience is assumed.

| # | Wk. of |  Topic  |  
|-------|------|-----------|
1	| 09/02	| Introduction to Databases |          
2	| 09/09	| Hands-on SQL: Selecting columns |  
3	| 09/16	| Hands-on SQL: Filtering rows  	 |  
4	| 09/23	| Hands-on SQL: Aggregating Functions  |  
5	| 09/30	| Hands-on SQL: Sorting and Grouping  |  
6	| 10/07	| Hands on SQL: Writing Simple Sub-queries |  
7  |  10/14   | Hands on SQL: Joining Tables |  
8	| 10/21	| Mid-term  Exam|  
9	| 10/28	| Understanding Tables  |  
10	| 11/04	| Understanding Databases  |  
11	| 11/11	| Introduction to Database Design  |  
12	| 11/18	| Entity Relationship Diagrams  |  
13	| 11/25	| Database Design Lab-1  |  
14	| 12/02	| Database Design Lab-2   |  
15	| 12/09	| Final Exam   |  


## Text Books
There is no required Text Book for this course. However, students interested in going more in-depth can reference the following books which cover most topics we will discussing in this course. Both these books are available online through Wayne State University Libraries. You do NOT need to purchase these books.

For SQL:
* [Russo, John. SQL by Example, New York : Momentum Press. 2018](https://www.amazon.com/SQL-Example-John-Russo/dp/1945612622)

For Database Design:
* [Bagui, Sikha and Earp, Richard, Auerbach Publications; 2nd Edition (September 7, 2011)](https://www.amazon.com/Database-Design-Entity-Relationship-Diagrams-Foundations/dp/1439861765/ref=sr_1_3?dchild=1&keywords=Database+Design+Using+Entity-Relationship+Diagrams&qid=1598712857&s=books&sr=1-3)

In addition to these, we may leverage resources available on the web. Additional readings will be referenced through the course as needed.

## Workflow
Work will consist of tutorials, videos, hands on labs and exercises. There will be a heavy emphasis on learning by doing. Task lists for each week will be laid out in detail.

## Evaluation of work
A large part of your grades is based on timely completion of exercises throughout the course. Most classes will have hands on exercises. Exercises are online and students can have unlimited attempts till due date. Pass/fail grades will be given based on whether the exercise was completed. Students can seek help from the instructor if they are stuck. In addition to labs, there is a mid-term and final exam.
